- [Instructor] I want to talk for a moment
about using Active Directory from Microsoft
for authentication in a Spring Boot application.
Now, today, many companies are moving to ADFS
which is SAML based,
but there still are a lot of enterprises
using good old-fashioned Microsoft Active Directory.
It's important to note that Active Directory
is not LDAP, and that sometimes really gets confused
in the industry because people deal with LDAP
and quite often they are connecting to LDAP URLs,
but really they are hitting Active Directory.
It's important to make this distinction
because Active Directory implements an LDAP API,
but Active Directory is much more than LDAP itself.
Now, the LDAP interface is really what is exposed,
and it's exposed to the AD Lightweight directory services.
And that's contained within the structure
of Active Directory itself.
Now, again, Active Directory isn't LDAP
because Active Directory provides many, many,
many more services and if you look at the port requirements
of a domain controller, you get a real feel
for the weight of Active Directory
versus a very small Lightweight LDAP implementation
like OpenLDAP, but that being said,
Active Directory is by far
one of the most popular enterprise solutions
for managing directory services among other things.
And as such as a Spring developer, it is critical
that you not only understand the differences
but understand how to leverage your knowledge
of LDAP to integrate with your enterprise Active Directory.
Now, authentication with an Active Directory
seems very familiar if you have worked with LDAP.
It can be standard, but there are some non-standard methods.
Configuration in an Active Directory situation
is very, very similar to what we previously looked at
with LDAP because you're pointing to a specific URL,
but I do want to give you a little word of caution.
Now, one catch with Active Directory is all too often
we build nested group structures.
In fact, that's considered a feature of Active Directory
to build groups within groups within groups.
That way you can cascade permissions down your organization
and across your organization without having to do
a lot of management, but in the Spring Security world,
nested groups don't natively work out of the box.
And there's actually a Spring Security ticket, SEC-1823,
that talks about this.
There's some conversation there that's really good,
actually, between Rob Winch and myself, where we're talking
about the fact that this support in my mind's eye
seems natural, but it would be very non-passive change
to Spring Security.
In that discussion, Rob has provided
a very clear implementation step,
and it's one that I've implemented and highly recommend
you go take a look at that ticket if you're dealing
with nested groups within your structure.
The implementation of an authentication provider
from a Spring Security perspective should look very familiar
as it's what we did for the traditional LDAP.
There's an authentication provider.
And instead of LDAP authentication provider,
it's an Active Directory LDAP authentication provider.
And just like before in your configure method
that has an authentication provider builder,
you are going to utilize this LDAP provider,
and you're going to do that
in your Web Security Configure Adapter Class.
Mostly it's going to be the exact same as standard LDAP.
Where you're really going to have to play
is in the group world matching.
And you're going to have to do extra work on that.
That's just because the nature of the nested groups
that we get all too often in Active Directory.
I'm not going to do any demo code here because, quite frankly,
setting up an Active Directory service is not a trivial task
but I'm sure you have one at your organization.
if you're interested in this.
And connecting to it and playing around with the APIs
isn't really that hard.
And I'm sure that your Windows admins
can get you a read-only account so you don't break anything.
Take a look at those conversations on that security ticket.
There's also various forums like Stack Overflow
where people tend to interact a lot on Spring Security.
And there you will find a very clear indication
of how similar this is to traditional LDAP.